Hello and welcome to this art to toil and mostly welcome to the last part of this course bartend model
selection and boosting.
So in this part we will do two things.
First evaluating our moral performance and second improving our model performance.
And then there will be this bonus section about one of the most powerful algorithm in machine learning
which has become more and more popular and that is called Extreme boost.
But first we want to be able to improve the model performance of all the machine learning models we've
built in this course and improving the model performance can be done with a technique called model selection
that consist of choosing the best parameters of your machine learning models because you know remember
every time we build a machine learning model Well we have two types of parameters.
The first type where the parameters that the model learns that is the parameters that were changed and
found optimal values by running the model and then the second type of parameters the parameters that
we chose ourselves.
For example the kernel parameter in the kernel as we are model and these parameters are called the hyper
parameters.
So there is still room to improve the model because we can still choose some optimal values for these
But since these parameters another parameters learned by the model then we need to figure out another
way to choose these optimal values for these parameters for the hyper parameters.
And that's one of the powerful thing we'll do in this part 10 and that's will be through a very efficient
technique called grid search.
But before we start grid search we need to optimize our way to evaluate our models because so far what
we did is split our dataset between a training set and a test set.
And you know we trained our model on the training sets and we tested its performance on the test set.
That's a correct way of evaluating the model performance.
But that's not the best one because we actually have the variance problem the variance problem can be
explained by the fact that when we get the accuracy on the test set.
Well if we run the model again and test again it's performance on another test set.
Well we can get a very different accuracy.
So judging our model performance only on one accuracy on one test set is actually not super relevant.
That's not the most relevant way to evaluate the model performance.
And so there is this technique called K4 cross-validation that improves this a lot because that will
fix this Varians problem and how will it fix it it will fix it by spinning the training set into tenfold
when cake will stand.
And most of the time cake will stand.
And we train our model a nine fold and we test it on the last remaining foot.
And since with 10 falls we can make 10 different combinations of nine fours to trend a model and one
for to test it.
That means that we can train the model and test them on all N10 combinations of training and tests and
that will already give us a much better idea of the model performance because what we can do have to
take an average of the different accuracy is up to 10 evaluations and also compute a standard deviation
to have a look at the variance.
So eventually our analysis will be much more relevant and besides we'll know in which of these four
categories will be because if we get a good accuracy and a small variance will be on the lower left
one if we get a large accuracy and a high variance we will be on the lower right one if we get a small
accuracy in a low variance.
We will be on the upper left one and eventually if we get a low accuracy and high variance we will be
on the right one.
So this K4 cross-validation is very useful.
And besides our performance analysis is much more relevant.
So let's start with this K4 across the nation.
Our first technique of moral selection.
So since we already built a lot of models we're not going to build another one.
We are going to use one of the model we built and apply careful the nation on it.
And so the model we're going to use is this kernel as V.M. we made in part three classification.
And I remember we used to predict if the customers are going to click on the ads on the social network
to buy Yes no the SUV.
So the model is already built and we already have everything.
So what we're going to do is take the whole model and we are going to add a new section of code inside
of it that is going to be of course the section code that will implement K4 cross-validation.
So before we start doing it let's pick the right folder as a working directory.
So we go to machine.
It is that we are now in the last part of this course.
Congratulations for reaching out bartend mouse selection and boosting and section 48 model selection.
All right.
Make sure that you have the social network at as you file.
And if that's the case you're ready to go.
All right so now where do we apply the K4 cross-validation code section.
Well since that consists of evaluating them all performance Well the most relevant location to put it
is right after we build our kernel as a model that is right.
We built the model and actually in this here we have the predictions of the test results and the confusion
matrix that is actually a first way of evaluating the model.
But as I said at the beginning of this tutorial this is a correct way of evaluating the model but not
the best one.
And in today's Statoil we are introducing a much better way to evaluate our model.
And so let's put it right after the section as in a more advanced performance evaluation method.
And so we're going to call this section applying K FULDE cross validation.
All right so now the first thing that we have to do is to install the carrot package because this contains
a very practical tool to create the tenfold of our training set.
So let's start with this install that packages and in parenthesis and quotes Carrot's.
All right.
So mine is already installed we can check it out check the same on your list of packages.
Here it is carit.
So I will just put that in comment.
But don't forget to install it and then let's not forget the library command to import automatically
the carrot package.
All right.
And now let's start coding careful cross-validation.
So first we are going to create the ten folds that will divide our training sets and do this it's very
simple.
We're going to use to create false function by the carrot package to create these ten folds very efficiently.
So let's do it.
We're going to call this fold.
FOLDS Well actually be a list of 10 different test folds composing our training sets.
So let's use this create capital F full function.
Here it is.
And inside the parenthesis we just need to specify the training set.
So here I'm adding the training set.
And then we take our dependent variable and call them by which we want to make this play.
You know it's exactly like when we split the days between the training set and a test set we need to
specify the dependent variable to make a split so that the training set in the test set are well distributed
according to the dependent variable.
Well here that's the same we're creating 10 folds of the trainset and we are specifying the dependent
variable to make sure are well distributed according to the dependent variable.
So that's why here we need to specify our Develin variable which is purchased all right.
That's the first argument of the create force function.
And of course as you might have guessed the second argument is the number of FULDE you want to divide
your trainset into and really a good choice of the number of fours is 10.
Because by creating 10 fold we will eventually get 10 accuracy's and 10 accuracy's is the relevant way
to measure the accuracy through the mean of these 10 accuracies.
So we'll take 10.
And I recommend to do that in practice.
So here we just add K equals 10.
All right.
Now we're going to implement careful cross-validation because what we just did here is just to create
the fold.
But now we need to implement the algorithm itself and to do this well there are several ways of doing
it.
But we're going to use a very practical function in our which is called Laplae function and that consists
of applying a function to the different elements of a list.
So this list is going to be our full list that contains the tentes folds and the function is the function
that is going to compute the accuracy for each of these tentes falls.
So let's start by creating a new are that we're going to call C-v and then let's use here this L apply
function.
All right.
And you're going to understand what's going to happen.
So in this Laplae function we need to put two arguments the first argument is the list of the elements
to which we are going to apply the next function which is the next argument.
And so as I just said this list is false.
The list of our tent follows.
And then the next argument is the function.
So a function and R can be written this way function.
Then in parenthesis we need to input the argument which will call X this is a local argument so far
but X is actually going to be each one of the tentes fault.
So X here and then a pair of brackets.
Here we go.
And inside these brackets we are going to implement this function that will compute the accuracy of
the model on each of these tentes folds.
So basically in this function we are going to implement careful cross-validation.
So what do we need to implement careful cross-validation.
Well first we need the training field the training field is the whole training set to which we withdraw
the test fold.
So basically training for here I'm creating a new local variable actually called that I'm calling training
fault.
And so as I just said this is the whole training set.
Here we go.
But to which we withdraw the test fold that is minus X because you know X is actually each element of
this false list here.
So by putting minus X here we are taking the whole training set.
But without the test failed.
And therefore that's actually the trunkful.
And then come up to take all the columns All right.
So we got our Tranfield.
Now let's get our test fold or test fold.
Try to guess what it's going to be test fold equals training set and inside the square brackets.
Well what do we need to put here.
Well that's actually X because you know X represents all the observations for each one of the tentes
folds.
So we got our test fold.
And then what do we need to do now.
Now what we need to do is train our colonel as we're all on the training fold and then we will test
its performance on the test fold.
So basically what do we need to do now.
We need to add our model which is our kernel as V.M. classifier.
So what we can do now is just take this code section here because that's where we build the model and
we need to include this model in the function that's why we're taking it.
So copy and let's add it here paste.
And here we go we have our model but we are not training this kernel Colonel SVM classifier on the training
set we were training on the training force because that's the principle of Caple cross-validation we
are training our classifier.
On each one of the ten training falls.
So that's why here we're taking the train full and that we create here inside this function that we're
making right now and then we keep the same arguments.
All right then what do we need to do.
Well that's exactly the same as what we're doing when we make a model that is predicting the test that
results.
That's the next step because that's from this test that results that we will then compute the confusion
matrix and therefore the accuracy which is exactly what we need that is which is exactly what will be
returned by the function we are making right now to implement careful cross-validation.
So same let's copy this line to predict the test result and let's copy it here.
And is that all of course.
No because we are not testing or classify on the test set but we're testing it on the test fold.
Right.
Because you know we are training a model on the training field and testing its performance on the test
foot.
So now it's good.
And now let's move on to the next step which is to compute the confusion matrix.
So still let's take this line here and that's pasted below right here paste.
And now of course we need to change test set and replace it by test fold.
All right.
And this will give us the confusion matrix of this classifier as being more all of this Colonel SVM
classifier.
And that is trained on the training field and tested on the test field.
And therefore this line of code will give you the compression matrix for the observations of the test.
All right.
And now last step we need to compute the accuracy because we're doing all this to get the accuracy's
for all the tentes falls here.
So let's compute the accuracy the accuracy is we've calculated this accuracy many times.
We take the number of correct predictions which is see n one come up one because this corresponds to
the number of correct predictions of the first class plus cme to come to because this corresponds to
the number of correct predictions of the second class.
And since we have two classes this sum corresponds to the total number of correct predictions.
And then we divide it by the total number of observations in the test and therefore that's the number
of correct predictions which is the sum here.
Too which we also need to add the number of incorrect predictions and therefore no we can copy this
and take the first number of incorrect predictions that corresponds to the first class and the second
number of incorrect actions that corresponds to the second class.
And so here we are actually taking all the elements of this confusion matrix that is the number of correct
actions plus the number of incorrect predictions.
And so now with this line of code we get the accuracy for one fold.
But since we're using this supply function this will do all this compute the accuracy for each of the
10 test falls and therefore we will get 10 accuracies and we will compute it mean which will give us
a much more relevant accuracy than just a single one we obtained earlier with our previous method of
evaluating the model performance.
All right so now we have everything but we just need to specify that we want to have this accuracy returned
because this is a function so we need to specify what we want this function to return and to do this
we just add return parenthesis and accuracy.
And now everything is ready.
Careful transformation is well implemented.
All right so now we are ready to get the 10 accuracy's that will result from this 10 fold cross-validation
technique.
So we're going to select everything from here up to the top because we haven't imported the data set
yet.
So let's Presque American troops enter to execute the whole thing.
Here we go.
Everything was correctly executed in less than one second.
So that's perfect.
Let's have a look at the results.
So first let's put that down.
All right.
So here we get all the results.
First the data set was well imported.
We split it into the training set and the test set at this section here and then we built our classifier
which is our kernel as being classifier.
And of course we get our CV list that we built through careful cross-validation that is this Aviles
which is the list of the 10 accuracies that result from Caple transformation.
And so let's check it out.
Let's have a look at what these 10 accuracies are.
So we're going to look at it from the console.
So I'm pressing Siri here and pressing Enter.
And here we go.
That's the results.
That's the 10 accuracy's.
So full one we get a 93 percent accuracy that's very good full to 87 percent for 3 100 percent and no
incorrect prediction for 86 percent full 5.
96 percent 90 percent on 4:6 90 percent 7 93 percent and 4 8 9 percent 4 9 and eventually 83 percent
on full 10.
So that clearly illustrates what I told you about this Varians problem that can occur when we rerun
the model several times because indeed we get different accuracies and sometimes a large difference
in accuracy from one field to another.
So from here to here that's fine but here for example from 4 2 2 4 3 we get a 13 percent difference
of accuracy.
So that's why it's not that relevant to compute the accuracy on one single split and it's much more
relevant to compute the accuracy than 10 splits because then we can take the mean.
And that's exactly what we're going to do right now.
We're going to compute the mean after 10 accuracies that we obtain here.
So to get this I mean it's actually very simple.
We're just going to use the mean function.
So parenthesis here and inside this when we of course input CV because CV is a list of our ten accuracies
that we obtain here.
However just to make sure we get the values of the accuracies of each of the ten fold we need to specify
here as that numeric and in parenthesis we include TV to make sure we take the mean of these values
that are the accuracies and let's put this average of the accuracies into one variable that will appear
in the values here.
And let's go these variables simply accuracy because the mean of these accuracies is just the ultimate
relevant accuracy.
So accuracy was mean of the accuracies in the civil list.
All right so let's compute it and we'll get Let's see an accuracy of 91 percent and that's the relevant
accuracy.
We're looking for.
So overall we can say with more credibility that our model our kernel as the classifier is pretty performance.
So that's pretty good.
And now congratulations you have a much more advanced way of evaluating your model performance and your
designs science targets what you'll see in the next Statoil we'll see a very powerful technique that
will help us choose the optimal hyper parameters of any machine learning model we built.
So I look forward to doing that in the next Statoil.
And until then enjoy learning.